if you're new to my channel you might be
surprised to learn that this is not my
first video about dating advice or about
romance it is also not my first video
specifically responding to the nearly
infinite source of bad advice called
based Zeus here on YouTube so basis now
has over 1 million subscribers his
influence and his cultural significance
has continued to grow and grow during
the years at least one year in which
I've been commenting on basis and his
terrible dating and romance advice I
remember last time doing in the garden
in France I'm pointing to my girl off
camera by the way we've yet to see a
girlfriend for base Zeus on camera we
have to see any other women is life we
also don't know how old he is we don't
know how good-looking is we don't know
if any of the stories he tell us about
dating are real let me tell you
something
never doesn't oh boy all the stories
about me getting late let's check real I
think all two of them I don't think I've
told the whole hell of a lot but you
have people who watch my channel
regularly I think they've figured out a
fair bit about my about my licit sex
life shall we say including my marriage
and my divorce I have a kid I have an
emotionally complex life and I have
emotionally complex relationship with
women and if there's one thing you can
say about the advice from face Zeus it's
that it's lacking emotional complexity
so real quick response to his latest
video quote how to be confident around
girls how to make girls like you and and
be more confident all right question
number one I want to ask here is how
really does confidence help so this is
something the PUA guys or pas or pickup
artists this is something guys guys this
is something they're actually divided on
and they debate okay and one thing I
want to say to you use sympathy as an
analytical tool think about how you
perceive this situation if you were the
woman if your roles were reversed if a
woman walks up to me and hits on me at
the gym and she's super confident
does it help either I'm interested in
her or I am now
right if a woman walks up to me at the
coffee shop like ie we're talking with
complete strangers or 4/1 walks up to me
in the university classroom who's been
in class with me for a while we've
chatted a few times where we're not
complete strangers or at the library or
it's a co-worker what difference is it
gonna make to me if she comes up and
flirts with me and she's super confident
what if she comes up and flirts with me
and she's kind of nervous and she's kind
of shy but I can tell she's interests
that could touch her
if I'm interested I'm interested and if
anything maybe it's gonna be a thrill
that she show wow I can see she really
likes me it's nothing wrong with that if
she lacks confidence but she wants me
and I want her then it's on right so my
girlfriend's smiling off-camera this
ain't rocket science but the advice from
base soos is terrible and guess what
let's double it up to make this extra
clear if there were two different girls
at the gym and one of them walks up and
hits on me and I'm ice and another one
walks up and hits on me and I'm fire
maybe there's somebody standing back
watching and say hey wait that girl was
confident that girl came up she was
super confident she had great game and
she really talked to you but then this
other girl she wasn't confident and and
you responded way more positive why was
that because there's nothing to do with
confidence I wanted this girl I didn't
want that girl or I was interested in I
was open to the possibility of one girl
and not the other okay there's a TV show
and a book series called game of Thrones
in that one of the major plots is the
obsessive sex life of this guy little
finger little fingers his nickname he so
if you watch the TV show you've seen
this whatever
it's an HBO hit TV show known as people
Xena his whole life there were two
sisters so they look alike they don't
look they're not identical twins but
they're sisters and he wanted one of
them and he never wanted the other he
was in love with Catelyn he was always
trying to get with Catelyn and he didn't
want the other sister Lysa even though
she was in love with him doesn't matter
that's it that's all
comes down to it doesn't come down to if
you're confident or not it comes down to
whether you're the right man or you're
wrong one whether you're the right woman
or the wrong one and maybe maybe that is
part of the tragedy of being bone being
born in human form okay but that's the
tragedy we're all struggling with and
they'll from your perspective as the
dude okay maybe you don't know maybe you
don't know yet
in a lot of situations you do know if
it's a co-worker if it's someone you're
in class with you probably already know
before you walk up with on her and try
to hit on her you probably already know
if she's really interested not
interested at all or maybe a little bit
you put if you're not an idiot if you
don't have Asperger's syndrome I'm not
using that as a slander Asperger's
syndrome it's a real thing you know if
you don't have one of these disabilities
where you can't read and judge innuendo
and nuance or hey if maybe English isn't
your first language that's another huge
thing language barrier cultural barrier
oh I knew all these I knew these really
awkward situations with Middle Eastern
guys like Arab immigrants hitting on
white women and hitting on like Chinese
women and oh you know and they mean well
and they're just not getting it and you
know oh so yeah cultural barrier mental
disability there are other factors here
with all that aside you probably do
already know and if you know that
confidence won't help I got a co-worker
there's a girl got a question on and
someone I've chatted with a few times in
my class at University and I know I know
she's not what I'm looking for so what
if I roll up on her super console what
it's not me it's not her it's not gonna
happen or even if it does happen the
confidence is not going to help okay um
the other big piece of advice he gives
you here is keeping it shallow not
talking about anything too profound keep
it relaxed keep it she'll don't talk
about anything of substance so if a girl
walks up to me it's C the same exercise
I don't want her whatever reason maybe
she's ugly
maybe she smokes marijuana
maybe she smokes crack she uses cocaine
I mean they're things and she may not
know that about me she may think she's
cool smoking dope let's say it's a
co-worker and she smokes marijuana
during her breaks and to me that's just
rebar 'but --iv and i'm not interested
and it's a turn-off and i want she
doesn't know that she thinks so she's
close she thinks maybe she assumes I
smoke weed too and I'll call that no for
me she's like put herself on a really
low level just because she smokes weed
in guys some of you this is happening to
you're a dude who smokes marijuana and
spends your time smoking marijuana and
playing video games and for some girls
they are gonna look down their nose at
you that's it you're judged you're not
on the menu you're disqualified you are
disqualified and some other girl she
smokes marijuana and plays video games
too and that's what she's looking for in
a guy that's that's out there also good
luck that's probably not the girl you
want right whatever it is maybe she's
ugly maybe I think she's not smart of me
maybe we're not in the right you know we
don't very common interests right so if
she follows this advice she rose up on
me super confident talking about totally
shallow [ __ ] is that gonna help her
is that gonna help her get over that
that bridge get over that hill get over
that disadvantage no no yeah but I think
I think for any guy I think you know I
mean maybe if a girl walks up to you
who's really not that attractive you
weren't interested but she walks up to
you and she's getting into a
conversation that to you is really
interesting and really meaningful and
really heavy and really profound and
really unexpected it's like Oh Marjorie
like I didn't know I didn't know you
look at oh you've been my co-worker here
you've been in this class with me oh and
we connected in level oh we both are
interested in blank or oh maybe it's
something I'm not even interested you
just walked up to me and said the most
interesting thing about World War one
and I wasn't even thinking about World
War one it's like oh wow okay I didn't
know you were a deep an interesting
person like that maybe now you're not
looking so ugly or you don't maybe now I
don't think you're a crack head or
something
whatever the disadvantages are maybe I
don't just judge you because you're lazy
at work or you're a lousy student here
at the University or whatever my or your
clothing or
my shallow first impression is maybe if
you take it a bit deeper you know you
have a bit more you have a bit more of
an advantage um before I met my current
girlfriend there was a girl with
University answer I'm saying Corolla
let's say she was 27 so fully grown
woman so she was 27 I was probably 37
just a couple years ago whatever was and
she was attracted to me
I was charted her and you know we had a
bunch of conversations but the things
about me that interested her don't
interest me all right so you got us Pro
tellers Chinese on this shirt I speak
Chinese I'm study you don't study
Chinese at time and stuff it's still him
now she was really interested about the
places I've been in Europe the trouble
like 20 yeah she was really interested
in some anecdotes I told about in my
relationship with my brother one of my
brother's I have several like I remember
the stuff that she was interested in and
you know it made sense I knew enough
about her for career aspirations her
background her educational background
there was stuff she liked about me but
this is gonna sound a bit brutal it's
not stuff I like about myself you know
what I mean and like so what I came out
of the closet on this a couple video
games ago in the past I was a video game
journalist a long time ago so I kind of
know I know a certain amount about video
games if I met a woman and that's what
we had in common that even if that's who
I am well that's something I did in the
past no that's not really who I aspire
to be in the future that's not what I
want to do so you're not gonna you're
not gonna get that groove on and I think
that situation ended both her and I both
Americana I look at each other like
maybe maybe mmm you know and we just
both didn't do it and that's cool right
and I mean I think that's the other
lesson based Zeus is never gonna give
you like connect to people in a
meaningful way and and disconnect from
people because most of the time it's
it's not gonna work out right and I
think the saddest thing of all what he's
never really honest to you about are the
levels of this the difference between
talking to a complete stranger at the
gym or at the library as opposed to
someone you've had a few conversations
with in the university classroom or
co-worker setting because guys you got
gotta be kidding yourself I saw really
briefly I saw this dude at my gym flirt
with and hit on two different women
right in front of me same guy on two
different days and it was really like
formal pickup artist stuff like one
woman I was there I won't use his real
name but I was there when he was sitting
on the edge of the bench the worker but
she was waiting for his chance and then
he actually stepped forward and put his
hand out to shake hands like yeah I'm
Brett I got that moment you know Jim
isn't that big I was just legitimately
lifting weights but I'm like standing
right next to them but this happens I
saw him really put in game on two
different women into slightly different
scenarios and you know one of the women
responded negatively and one of them
responded really positively she was just
really warm and appreciative you know
she probably appreciated the flirtation
the next time I saw that woman come to
the gym she was with her husband and her
eight-year-old son so you want to put
the time and energy into hitting on
randoms and being so confident and
having these shallow conversations guess
what you're doing you're spending most
of your time flirting with and
flattering a bunch of married women
women who are off the market women who
are taken women or lesbians
women who for a million different
reasons are never possibly gonna
reciprocate your interest and if you
just think a little bit sympathetically
if you just think from the woman's
perspective if you were in their shoes I
think you can come up with your own
advice a lot better than what basis is
currently selling you